Cloud Foundry - The Beautiful Promise of a Haiku
================================================

**Categories:** deployment, scaling, apps, paas

**Audience:** any



Elevator Pitch
--------------

Don't you wish pushing your application into production was as
easy as pushing your code up to origin?  A world where you can
order up a database or a key-value store like you order up lunch?

What if I told you that it can be that easy; that that world does
exist?  It's called Cloud Foundry!


Description
-----------

> here is my source code
> run it on the cloud for me
> i do not care how
> -- Onsi Fakhouri

This Haiku sums up the basic promise of Cloud Foundry, a Platform
for application software deployment.  With CF, all you need to do
is give it your source code and it figures out how to compile,
build, stage, and execute it.

If you need a relational database or a NoSQL backend, Cloud
Foundry can help.  If you have complicated name- or port-based
routing requirements, Cloud Foundry can help.  If you want to
easily scale your application from one instance to ten, a hundred,
or a thousand, Cloud Foundry can help.

In this talk, James will show you Cloud Foundry.  We'll go through
the deployment of an application, plumb it with a database, scale
it up, and change out the routing.


Selling Myself
--------------

I've been an active member of the Cloud Foundry Open Source
community for four years now, and have been involved in the
development and deployment of several applications in several
different language and framework ecosystems, from Ruby (Sinatra +
Rails), to Python (Django), to Go (Gin, net/http), to Java
(vanilla + SpringBoot).

I've given talks at Cloud Foundry summit, and at employer and
customer events.  I've conducted medium-to-large training classes
on Cloud Foundry, data services, data protection, and automation.
I even tell jokes!


Shop Log
--------

- Submitted to _Devops Days Buffalo 2019_, Mar 29 2019.
